<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="guestadd-install">
  <title>Installing Guest Additions</title>
  
  <body>
    <p>These instructions apply to all OSs. For additional information, see <xref href="additions-windows.dita"/>, <xref href="additions-linux.dita"/>, <xref href="additions-solaris.dita"/>, or <xref href="additions-os2.dita"/>.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Mount the Guest Additions ISO</title>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Start the virtual machine. The OS must be installed.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>From the <uicontrol>Devices</uicontrol> menu, choose <uicontrol>Insert Guest Additions CD Image</uicontrol>, which mounts the Guest Additions ISO file inside your VM.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>If this option is not available, or if you prefer to mount the ISO manually:</p>
          <ol>
            <li>
              <p>From the <uicontrol>Devices</uicontrol> menu, choose <uicontrol>Optical Drives</uicontrol>, and then<uicontrol> Choose/Create a Disk Image</uicontrol>. This displays <xref href="virtual-media-manager.dita"/>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>In the Virtual Media Manager, click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol> and browse your host file system for the <filepath>VBoxGuestAdditions.iso</filepath> file.</p>
              <ul>
                <li>On a Windows host, this file is in the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> installation directory, usually in <filepath>C:\Program files\Oracle\VirtualBox</filepath>.</li>
                <li>
                  <p>On a Linux host, this file is in the <filepath>additions</filepath> folder where you installed <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, usually <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox/</filepath>.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>On Oracle Solaris hosts, this file is in the <filepath>additions</filepath> folder where you installed <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/>, usually <filepath>/opt/VirtualBox</filepath>.</p>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>In the Virtual Media Manager, select the ISO file and click <uicontrol>Add</uicontrol>. This mounts the ISO file and presents it to your guest OS as a CD-ROM.</p>
            </li>
          </ol>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Run the Guest Additions Installer</title>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Mount the ISO as described in the previous task.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Unless you have the Autostart feature disabled, or it is not supported, the OS will now autostart the <ph conkeyref="vbox-conkeyref-phrases/product-name"/> Guest Additions installer from the Guest Additions ISO.</p>
          <p>If the Autostart feature has been turned off, choose <filepath>VBox&lt;OS>Additions.exe</filepath> from the CD/DVD drive inside the guest to start the installer, where <filepath>&lt;OS></filepath> is <filepath>Windows</filepath>, <filepath>Linux</filepath>, <filepath>OS2</filepath> or <filepath>Solaris</filepath>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Follow the instructions in the installer.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Reboot the guest OS.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
