<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="tk_vm-activity-session-information">
   <title>Session Information Dialog</title>
   <body>
      <p>The Session Information dialog includes multiple tabs that show important configuration and runtime information for the guest system. The tabs are as follows: </p>
      <ul>
         <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Configuration Details</b>. Displays the system configuration of the virtual machine in a tabular format. The displayed information includes details such as storage configuration and audio settings. </p>
         </li>
         <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Runtime Information</b>. Displays runtime information for the guest session in a tabular format similar to the Configuration Details tab. </p>
         </li>
         <li>
            <p><uicontrol>VM Resource Use</uicontrol>. Includes several time series charts which monitor guest resource usage including CPU, RAM, Disk I/O, and Network. Note that the RAM chart requires the Guest Additions to be running on the guest system. The <uicontrol>VM Resource Use</uicontrol> tab can also be accessed directly from the <uicontrol>Resource Dashboard</uicontrol>. See <xref href="vm-activity-overview.dita"/>. </p>
         </li>
         <li>
            <p><b outputclass="bold">Guest Control</b>. Details of processes used by the Guest Control File Manager. See <xref href="guestadd-gc-file-manager.dita"/>.</p>
         </li>
      </ul>
      <note>
         <p>For cloud VMs, only the <uicontrol>VM Resource Use</uicontrol> tab is shown.</p>
      </note>
      <p>To display session information for a guest VM or a cloud VM, select the VM name in the <uicontrol>Machines</uicontrol> list and click the <uicontrol>VM Resource Use</uicontrol> tab.</p>
   </body>
</topic>
